.TH "TCATEST" 3 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcamgr \- the command line utility of the abstract database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The command `\fBtcamgr\fR' is a utility for test and debugging of the abstract database API and its applications.  `\fIname\fR' specifies the name of a database.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies the key of a record.  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies the value of a record.  `\fIparams\fR' specifies the tuning parameters.  `\fIfunc\fR' specifies the name of a function.  `\fIarg\fR' specifies the arguments of the function.  `\fIdest\fR' specifies the path of the destination file.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcamgr create \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Create a database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr inform \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous information to the standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr put \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr out \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr get \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print the value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr list \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print keys of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr optimize \fIname\fB \fIparams\fB\fR
.RS
Optimize a database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr misc \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-sep \fIchr\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIfunc\fB \fR[\fB\fIarg\fB...\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Call a versatile function for miscellaneous operations.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr map \fR[\fB\-fm \fIstr\fB\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIdest\fB\fR
.RS
Map records into another B+ tree database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr version\fR
.RS
Print the version information of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature the following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-sx\fR : the input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-sep \fIchr\fR\fR : specify the separator of the input data.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use the function `tcadbputkeep' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use the function `tcadbputcat' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use the function `tcadbaddint' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use the function `tcadbadddouble' instead of `tcadbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : the output data is converted into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed at the end of the output.
.br
\fB\-m \fInum\fR\fR : specify the maximum number of the output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print values of records also.
.br
\fB\-fm \fIstr\fR\fR : specify the prefix of keys.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcatest (1),
.BR tcamttest (1),
.BR tcadb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
