.TH "TCUTEST" 1 "2012-08-18" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcutest \- test cases of the utility API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The command `\fBtcutest\fR' is a utility for facility test and performance test.  This command is used in the following format.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies the number of iterations.  `\fIanum\fR' specifies the initial number of elements of array.  `\fIbnum\fR' specifies the number of buckets.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcutest xstr \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of extensible string.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest list \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIanum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of array list.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest map \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of hash map.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest tree \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of ordered tree.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest mdb \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB \fR[\fB\fIbnum\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of on\-memory hash database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest ndb \fR[\fB\-rd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR|\fB\-dai\fR|\fB\-dad\fR|\fB\-dpr\fR]\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of on\-memory tree database.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest misc \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform test of miscellaneous routines.
.RE
.br
\fBtcutest wicked \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Perform updating operations of list and map selected at random.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature the following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-rd\fR : perform the reading test also.
.br
\fB\-tr\fR : perform the iterator test also.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use the function `tcxxxputkeep' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use the function `tcxxxputcat' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dai\fR : use the function `tcxxxaddint' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dad\fR : use the function `tcxxxadddouble' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
\fB\-dpr\fR : use the function `tcxxxputproc' instead of `tcxxxput'.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcumttest (1),
.BR tcucodec (1),
.BR tcutil (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
